# Work Portfolio: Postman Service Testing

## Project Description

This repository is part of my work portfolio and contains a set of service tests performed with Postman for two different APIs. The goal of these tests is to demonstrate my experience in designing and executing automated tests, as well as my ability to work with RESTful APIs and perform CRUD operations.

### Part 1: Simple Books API

In the first part of the project, we worked with Valentin Despa's Simple Books API. Tests were designed to validate the proper functioning of endpoints related to books and book orders. The main activities performed were:

- Creation of a test environment to run the tests.
- Use of variables from the created environment for dynamic test configuration.
- Implementation of CRUD operations with each of the service endpoints, including happy and unhappy paths.
- Assertion implementation to validate responses and ensure test quality.

### Part 2: Rick and Morty API

In the second part of the project, we worked with the Rick and Morty API to perform tests on the "Character" endpoint. The activities performed were:

- Listing all characters and validating the information of a specific character.
- Listing characters by page and validating the appearance of a character on that page.
- Getting a character by ID and performing corresponding validation.
- Validation of the response when searching for multiple IDs, including IDs that do not exist.

## Delivery Criteria and Repository Structure

For the delivery of evidence and as part of good development practices, the repository has been structured as follows:

- **Challenge Folder**: Contains all the material related to this project.
  - **Part 1**: Contains the collection and environment for tests of the Simple Books API.
    - **Collection**: JSON file of the Postman collection.
    - **Environment**: JSON file of the test environment in Postman.
    - **Generated Report Folder**: Contains reports generated by Newman.
  - **Part 2**: Contains the collection and environment for tests of the Rick and Morty API.
    - **Collection**: JSON file of the Postman collection.
    - **Environment**: JSON file of the test environment in Postman.
    - **Generated Report Folder**: Contains reports generated by Newman.

## Usage Instructions

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository URL>
